# Proof Generator

A proof generator for cairo programs. This repository uses [stone-prover](https://github.com/starkware-libs/stone-prover) under the hood to generate proofs and uses [cairo-vm](https://github.com/lambdaclass/cairo-vm) to run, compile and bootload the programs.

## Overview

You can genrate proofs for cairo programs here. The commands available are documented here.
There are 2 ways to genrate proofs:

1. First bootloading the program and then proving the execution of the bootloader. This is the recommended way and generates smaller proofs. Check out a simple bootloader [here](https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo-lang/blob/master/src/starkware/cairo/bootloaders/simple_bootloader/simple_bootloader.cairo_)
2. Proving the execution of the program directly.

## Installation

Run the following command to install the dependencies:

```shell
./install.sh
cargo build
```

## Files

`compiled.json`: The compiled Cairo program.
`input.json`: Input data for the Cairo program.
`public_input.json`: Public inputs for the proof generation.
`private_input.json`: Private inputs for the proof generation.
`trace.bin`: Execution trace of the Cairo program.
`memory.bin`: Memory dump of the Cairo program execution.
`proof.json`: The generated STARK proof.
`pie.zip`: Cairo PIE (Program Indepedent Executable) that can be generated by running the program and can be used re run the file in standardised way without inputs.
`cpu_air_prover_config.json`: Configuration file for the CPU AIR prover(stone-prover).
`cpu_air_params.json`: Parameters file for the CPU AIR prover(stone-prover).

## Preparing a program

To checkout an example, check out the `examples` directory.

1. Create a new cairo program to proove, e.g. `dummy_snos.cairo`.
2. Create a corresponding input file, e.g. `dummy_snos_input.json`.
3. Modify the `examples/cpu_air_params.json` and `examples/cpu_air_config.json` to fit your needs. Check out the [stone-prover](https://github.com/starkware-libs/stone-prover) documentation to see how to generate these files.

## Generating a proof

- If you want to generate a proof after bootloading it, run:

```shell
make prove_with_bootloader CAIRO_PROGRAM=<path_to_cairo_file>
```

- If you want to generate a proof for a program directly, run:

```shell
make prove_with_program CAIRO_PROGRAM=<path_to_cairo_file>
```

- If you want to generate a PIE(Position Independent Executable) program, run:

```shell
make generate_pie CAIRO_PROGRAM=<path_to_cairo_file>
```

- If you want to run the PIE program, run:

```shell
make run_pie CAIRO_PROGRAM=<path_to_cairo_file>
```
